In this lecture, we download the drivers so that we can interact with the web browsers.
So remember that Selenium web driver works by controlling the browser through the operating system.
We need a way for our test scripts to interact with the browser.
This is where the Web drivers come into play.
Each browser has their own driver, for example.
Chrome has a driver named Chrome Driver.
Firefox has a drive.
A ninth gecko driver.
And Edge has a driver named Edge Driver.
So the key thing to remember is that each driver is specific to the browser type.
So if we take a look at the following diagram, I can write a test in Java which will use the chrome
driver to talk to the Chrome browser.
And it's the same for Gecko driver which will talk to the Firefox browser and the same for Edge Driver,
which will talk to the Microsoft Edge browser.
So let's begin download in the driver's.
Before I download the drivers, I'm going to create a folder to store them in.
So I'm going to double click the resources folder.
I'm going to right click select new and in select folder.
So I'm going to call this folder drivers.
Underscore the one.
I'm then going to close this window.
And I'm going to open up Chrome browser.
So in the search engine, I'm going to type chrome.
Driver download.
The first result should be to chrome driver dot chromium dot org.
And if I click this link it should show you the following page.
So here you can see different Chrome versions.
And you'll see on the same line there is a link to the Chrome driver, which is specific for that Chrome
version.
So an important tip is to make sure you download the correct driver for your browser version so you
may not realize it, but google push updates for your browser and so your browser version can change.
So during this course, if you find that your browser version is later than what you started with,
you may need to download the latest driver for that specific version.
To find out what version of Chrome you're using if you click on this burger bar and then go to help.
And select about Google Chrome.
This panel here will display the version of Chrome currently installed.
So I need to download a specific driver which works with this version of Chrome, and I can see that
based on that version of Chrome.
I can download this particular version, which is 88.
So I'm going to click that link which will display the following page, and I've got options to download
the Chrome driver based on my operating system.
So as I'm using Windows, I'm going to select this Win32 zip and the download will begin.
So if I click on this download and go to show in folder, you'll see the chrome driver zip folder.
So I am going to minimize the browser and I'm going to drag that zip file over to my desktop and I'm
going to close this window.
So I'm going to unzip the contents of this folder into this drive up V1 folder.
So if I move this window over here and then double click on the zip file.
I'm going to simply drag the chrome driver into that driver V1 folder and that will unzip in that location.
As I no longer need this zip file, I'm going to place it in my recycling bin.
So the next step is to download the gecko driver for the Firefox browser.
So if you haven't got the Firefox browser, we're going to need to first download it.
So I need to download this for my machine too.
So I'm going to open up Chrome and I'm going to search for Firefox browser.
And if I search, the first result should be to the Mozilla dot org website and if I click on this link.
You should see a page which shows you a download Firefox button.
And if I click that the download of the Firefox browser should begin.
Once has finished downloading.
If I click on the installer, this should open up the installation wizard.
So I'm going to pause this video until the installation has finished.
So now that he's finished installing, you can see the Firefox browser on my screen.
So on first opening of Firefox asks you whether you want to set this browser as the default browser.
So I'm not going to do this, so I'm going to select not now.
In order to interact with the Firefox browser, we need to download the gecko driver.
So I'm going to close Firefox and for consistency I'm just going to open up Google Chrome.
So I'm going to search for gecko driver downloads.
And if I click enter, you should see the first result is to it gets a page at Mozilla Gecko driver
releases.
And if I click on this link, you'll see the Gecko drive it release.
And at the time of recording, 29 was the latest version.
So if I scroll down, you'll see that there is the options to download the driver based on our operating
system.
So as I'm using Windows, I'm going to select this within 64 zip.
When doing so, the download will begin.
So once has finished downloading.
If I click on it and go to show in folder, you'll see in my downloads folder I have the gecko driver
zip.
So like last time, I'm going to drag that over to my desktop.
I'm going to close this window and I'm going to unzip the content into my resources driver V1 folder.
So I'm going to double click the zip file and I'm going to simply drag the content to that driver V1
folder.
So we now have the gecko driver as well.
So the next step is to download the driver for the Microsoft Edge browser.
So as I'm using Windows, the Edge browser comes by default.
So you can see I have Microsoft Edge listed here.
If you haven't got Microsoft Edge, then all you need to do is go to a search engine and type Microsoft
Edge download and install it, similar to what we did with Firefox.
So to download the Microsoft Edge driver, I'm going to open up Chrome and search for MSS Edge driver.
And on searching.
The first results should be to developer Dot Microsoft.com, Microsoft Edge tools.
And if I click on this link, it should display the following page.
So we're going to be using Microsoft Edge, which is on the left hand side here.
If I scroll down, you'll see that there is a download section and like Chrome, there are different
releases available to us.
So if I open up the edge browser by clicking it.
So similar to what we did with the Chrome browser.
If I click on the burger bar and go to help and feedback and select about Microsoft Edge.
We'll see the version I currently have installed.
So I have version 82.0 .705.50.
So I need to download an H driver which matches that exact version.
So if we look at this top one here, it finishes with .50.
So I am going to select x64 as I'm using windows and this will download the edge driver.
So if I click on that download and go to show in folder, you'll see the edge driver zip file.
And like I've shown you previously, I'm going to drag that zip file to my desktop.
I'm going to double click to open it and you'll see two files.
So I'm going to simply drag the message driver from the zip file location to my resources driver b one
folder.
So if I drag that over, that would unzip to that location.
So in my Resources Driver V1 folder, I now have the chrome driver, the gecko driver and the message
driver, which are the drivers we need.
So that's the end of this lecture.
And in the next section will begin writing tests that will use each drivers to interact with each of
the browsers.
Thank you for watching.